[VTAdmin API] vtctld API to VTAdmin API transition table (#1419)
vitessio/website: content/en/docs/17.0/reference/vtadmin/vtctld-api-transition.md

---
title: vtctld API Transition
weight: 3
---

TO DO: write an introduction

> ## vtctld and VTAdmin API methods

Author: The following is a draft of the vtctld API to VTAdmin API migration guide. There are a few endpoints that don't match 1:1, and may fall into one of the following cases:
- The same data from vtctld can be found in a different endpoint in VTAdmin (ex. shards returned in GET keyspaces instead of having their own endpoint)
- The endpoint isn't supported in VTAdmin (ex. running a vtctl command)
- The endpoint should be implemented in VTAdmin, but isn't yet

| Remove keyspace cell | POST `/keyspaces/<keyspace>` | `action`| PUT `/api/keyspace/<cluster>/<keyspace>/remove_keyspace_cell` | <li>`cell`: Cell to be removed</li> <li>`force`: Proceed even if the cell's topology server cannot be reached. The assumption is that you turned down the entire cell, and just need to update the global topo data.</li> <li>`recursive`: Also delete all tablets in that cell belonging to the specified keyspace.</li> | - |
| Validate keyspace | POST `/keyspaces/<keyspace>` | `action`| PUT `/api/keyspace/<cluster><keyspace>/validate` | <li>`ping_tablets`: Indicates whether all tablets should be pinged during the validation process</li> | - |
| Validate keyspace schema | POST `/keyspaces/<keyspace>` | `action`| PUT `/keyspace/<cluster>/<keyspace>/validate/schema` | - | -  |
| Validate keyspace version | POST `/keyspaces/<keyspace>` | `action`| PUT `/api/keyspace/<cluster>/<keyspace>/validate/version` | - | -  |

> | Delete keyspace | POST `/keyspaces/<keyspace>` | `action`| DELETE `/api/keyspace/<cluster>/<keyspace>` | <li>`recursive`: Recursively delete all shards in the keyspace. Otherwise, the keyspace must be empty (have no shards), or DeleteKeyspace returns an error</li> | -  |

Reviewer: For these POST methods, is it worth documenting the vtctld params as `action=ValidateKeyspace` etc.?

Author: Yes! 😄 good idea. I'll have to research further what actions are possible, since the client was deleted.

Author: Added the actions based on https://github.com/vitessio/vitess/blob/main/go/vt/vtctld/vtctld.go

> | Delete keyspace | POST `/keyspaces/<keyspace>` | `action`| DELETE `/api/keyspace/<cluster>/<keyspace>` | <li>`recursive`: Recursively delete all shards in the keyspace. Otherwise, the keyspace must be empty (have no shards), or DeleteKeyspace returns an error</li> | -  |

Reviewer: Instead of saying `Otherwise`, it will be clearer to say `If not specified` or `If set to false`, whichever is applicable.

Author: 👍 sounds good to me! I took this description directly from vtctldclient docs btw: https://vitess.io/docs/15.0/reference/programs/vtctldclient/vtctldclient_deletekeyspace/

> | Delete keyspace | POST `/keyspaces/<keyspace>` | `action`| DELETE `/api/keyspace/<cluster>/<keyspace>` | <li>`recursive`: Recursively delete all shards in the keyspace. Otherwise, the keyspace must be empty (have no shards), or DeleteKeyspace returns an error</li> | -  |

Author: ```suggestion
| Delete keyspace | POST `/keyspaces/<keyspace>` | `action`| DELETE `/api/keyspace/<cluster>/<keyspace>` | <li>`recursive`: Recursively delete all shards in the keyspace. If not specified or set to false, the keyspace must be empty (have no shards), or DeleteKeyspace returns an error</li> | -  |
```

| Get keyspace tablets | GET `/keyspace/<keyspace>/tablets` | `cell`, `cells` | GET `/api/tablets` | <li>`cluster`: Optional cluster filter</li> | - |

> | Get keyspace tablets for a specific shard | GET `/keyspace/<keyspace>/tablets/<shard>` | `cell`, `cells` | GET `/api/tablets` | <li>`cluster`: Optional cluster filter</li> | -  |

Reviewer: Doesn't the VTAdmin `tablets` API take any other params? The underlying Vtctld `GetTablets` RPC lets you specify cells/keyspaces/shards etc.

Author: As it exists right now, the API method does not take any other params. We can add it as a part of [this issue's](https://github.com/vitessio/vitess/issues/12714) work!

---
title: vtctld API Transition
weight: 3
---

The following table highlights old vtctld API methods and their counterparts in the newer VTAdmin API. 

Some methods do not have a 1:1 mapping from vtctld to VTAdmin. These cases include:
- vtctld methods that are split out into many different VTAdmin methods (ex. keyspace and tablet action methods)
- vtctld methods that are not supported in VTAdmin (ex. executing a vtctl command)

> - vtctld methods that we plan to support, but do not currently support, in VTAdmin (ex. SrvKeyspace methods)

Reviewer 2: should we update this line in anticipation of https://github.com/vitessio/vitess/pull/12702 landing?

Author: Yes! Will update after it's merged 😄

> - vtctld methods that we plan to support, but do not currently support, in VTAdmin (ex. SrvKeyspace methods)

Author: ```suggestion
- vtctld methods that we plan to support, but do not currently support, in VTAdmin 
```
